# *__DH140 Project Proposal__*
##  :argentina::armenia::bosnia_herzegovina::bulgaria::fiji::gb:Welcome to the Olympics :cuba::algeria::western_sahara::estonia::dominican_republic::ceuta_melilla:
##### By Juliette Oliver and Adam Kaba
### _A Look Into Our Research Question_

The Olympics are a globally celebrated event intended to bring honor and pride to countries and their citizens around the world. Although such extravagant and awe inspiring events often achieve this, they also achieve costing billions of dollars over budget which are ultimately left to be paid by the host country. Because of these downsides, as is said by [Buisness Insider](https://www.businessinsider.com/future-olympics-no-country-wants-to-host-games-2018-2), less and less countries are vying for the opportunity to host such games in order to avoid the pricey budget that comes with them. Through our research we hope to examine various aspects such as  how Olympics affect its host country, as well as how the host country affects athletic performance. Additionally we’d like to examine how the introduction of women's events changed things. In the end, we hope our research will provide more insight into the effects of the games both globally and locally, and possibly get a clearer picture of how we can remedy or improve the time honored tradition.
___
### __Why this is important for *US, for YOU,* and what's *at stake*__

The Olympics are a global symbol of many things; unity, strength, and the resolve of athletes who spend their entire lives working to compete for their nation's honor. While the Olympics not only stand to inspire many of us to feel pride in our country, they also have a resounding impact on society and the host country's local economy. As fans of the Olympics and as people who see value in their contribution to society, we chose this data for its importance to our own personal interest. Like so many other Americans, we feel as though sports are a unifying factor for our nation and among other countries and because of this, we’d like to see them continue. We also know this is the case for many others, and so by studying this data ourselves, we hope to bring light to the situation in order to inspire others to take action to save the games. We hope that our research can inspire dialogue about the changes that could be made to the olympics in order to address the massive amounts of waste and economic loss that result from hosting the games (such as empty rotting stadiums, pollution) Ultimately, without such dialogue , the games are likely to continue on the same path as now. This would mean an end to the long held tradition that has united countries for over the last century.
___
### Our Spatial Scope
The Scope of our project is Global. Both the winter and summer games move to a new host country every 4 years, so our data will be from countries around the world.
As time has progressed the Olympics have grown in popularity, which in turn led to the emergence of new sports appearing in the games. The introduction of more sports, as well as the introduction of more female events may have an impact on games overall cost throughout the years and thus there may be an impact on host country economies. In addition, we hope to map out athletic performance by host countries athletes, and thus we will look for patterns in podium appearances throughout the years. Space is also important, because we realize that due to a difference in economic development, not all countries will have the same economic hardships to pay for or send athletes to the Olympics. We hope to possibly reveal the inequality in barring this hardship between various countries.
___
### Description of Our Data Sources
- https://www.kaggle.com/heesoo37/120-years-of-olympic-history-athletes-and-results. Historical dataset containing information on all the olympic games from 1896 - 2016. Data includes physiological data on every athlete such as (height, weight, age) as well as data such as athletes hometown/country, sport, and placing in each event.
- https://data.world/sports/olympics  A dataset containing information about the cost of each Olympic for the respective host country. This data is broken down into cost per event and cost per athlete in the Olympic games starting from the Tokyo 1964 Olympics and continueing to the 2014 Sochi winter games. 
- https://data.world/sports/women-in-the-olympic-games This dataset maps out the years when womens events were introduced, as well as the total number of female athletes participating in those games.
- https://data.world/msantolini/individual-performance-in-team/workspace/project-s ummary?agentid=msantolini&datasetid=individual-performance-in-team This dataset gives insight into the individual and team podium performances throughout the years of different countries athletes. The dataset includes data about the country of origin for athletes, individual medals received by athletes, and the total medals received by the team.
___ 
### Analysis and Resulting Visualizations of our Project
We hope to find compelling visualizations that will show us the economic impact the games have made on host countries throughout recent years. 
Possibilities to show this include making a line graph that plots the economic strain put on by the Olympics as time has passed.
In addition, we hope to make other visualizations that demonstrate the emergence of female sports and the success of host countries athletes in order to compare the findings of both in accordance with economic change.
Visualizations that result from this could be 2 line graphs overlapping each other, where one line represents economic impact while the other represents introduction or women's events into the games. In addition, we could create a bar graph that has bars representing the success of the host countries athletes in comparison with the economic burden of the games on sed country.

____
### Conclusion
In the end, we hope to find valuable insights into the broad impacts the games have on society, the economy, as well as the athletes themselves. By learning more about these impacts, we hope to bring awareness to both the positive and negative aspects of the games in hopes of hypothesizing ways in which we could mitigate the negative impacts. We hope our research will compel ourselves and others to think about the Olympics and continue to strive to maintain them as outlets for unity and cooperation between nations around the world.
